if we don't like it we will we will we
will throw it out we'll do it
hyper informal uh no worries no worries
but let's do this um so
if folks do listen to this i want to
welcome
uh darmesh a co-founder of hubspot to
this this
hyper informal sasser discussion on
expanding your product line it's an
interesting topic
that i don't know how early did you
start to think about this at hubspot
like just expanding your products
um it's probably about i'll say four or
five years
in um the kind of weird thing about
hubspot is when we started
we went against the kind of conventional
advice the conventional advice
which is actually very good advice is
kind of find your one thing
go deep on that one thing and do it
really really well from day one
or time t equals zero of hubspot uh we
were very broad so we had
everything at the top of the funnel we
had social media and analytics and
blogging and landing pages and it seems
like a suite to me as an outsider in the
early days it did feel like yeah that's
exactly yeah it was it was a marketing
suite so our need to kind of
do a product expansion wasn't
particularly high um
and so yeah a few years in it's uh this
is one of the kind of lessons learned on
product expansion
having thought back on it now and i
think
entrepreneurs myself include make this
mistake all the time in terms of like
what's the motivation what lots of
people will do it's like oh we're gonna
add the second product we're gonna do
this next thing
yeah and there's multiple reasons or
motivations you can have one is oh well
we need to grow revenue uh it's like
this we just need to drive growth
and that's in my mind not a particularly
good reason
i think because it's very kind of very
you focused right it's like that's not
the market's problem you're not solving
something that customers are asking for
the market needs you're saying well i
have a need to grow my revenue and
therefore i'm going to do this
other thing yeah lots of people do but i
just don't think that's a particularly
good one a second reason is
your customers are just asking for it
they're like i know you do x for me and
that's awesome but i would love it if
you also did y
which is kind of related so that's
that's a pretty good reason a better
reason
um and the third reason this is kind of
a bucket and we fall into the second and
third bucket is around
is it a natural part of the story like
if you kind of think ahead it's like
okay well
is this really actually your destiny
that you were supposed to do this
and now you may have just recognized it
now and that's the way we were when we
went from kind of marketing to
sales and crm software our customers
were asking for it right they're like oh
like you know we want something it's
like you have other great crm
products that are out there with you
know great companies behind well like
really good products with a very strong
dominant position so even from a
strategic perspective we ask ourselves
you know we're having pretty good
success in marketing why would we kind
of branch out into this thing that
uh we're not known for at all and and
the kind of answer we came to is that in
order to be the company we wanted to be
and build out this kind of uh front
office platform
the crm platform for for kind of
marketing
like this growth platform it would have
to be the whole thing we wouldn't be
able to
continue uh down the path and achieve
our ambitions without kind of
controlling that so the very
i'll call it like a little bit of an
apple-esque thing that in order to kind
of really drive the user experience
the way you want it to you have to kind
of control the boundaries and control
the edges you can't say oh we're gonna
partner with this person over here we're
gonna do this we're gonna try and
control as much as we can and that's the
kind of original genesis of hubspot the
reason we had such a broad marketing
suite is not because there weren't great
products in every category
it's because the user experience to try
to pull all those things together was
just too hard for most smbs so that was
uh anyway
now let me let me let me just push on
that a little bit because there's um
there's some term you can tell me what
it is i'm going to make it up i'm going
to call it a whiteboard synergy you're
sitting around with the with the
with the senior team at hubspot and
you're making up synergies
and an obvious one on the whiteboard is
sales and marketing they sit next to
each other
it's a continual funnel from from
you know your your blog in the early
days of hubspot to a closed deal but
sometimes those whiteboard synergies
don't exist in the world world right
sometimes
even in an smb or more a mid-market
sales and marketing are different silos
the different departments they're
different they're they're working
differently together so
how did you guys learn about that oh
that that overlap is real
right and not just a whiteboard synergy
uh a couple of things one is
we didn't know this at the time but we
actually had um
what some of our customers were calling
a crm
it's like why would we need that we
already had one when we went and
surveyed them and the reason is because
any marketing product is going to have
some database of contacts like a
list management system or a contact
management system in the product
for sure virtue of that is a marketer's
crm
right and and that's what it was
marketers if you're not a marketer this
is your database uh
database right this is human beings that
you interact with right
but it's not sales is database it's not
right this is
that's exactly and it would connect to
the crm the sales database and say okay
well those two need to
talk to each other uh so that was kind
of observation number one observation
number two
was that even at that time i think this
is roughly still true today
20 of hubspot's customers these are
paying customers
we're using uh salesforce as their crm
makes sense to the market leader um
another 20
were using some other crm it also makes
sense like okay there's a mishmash of
lots of other crm well that's
interesting
50 50 50 50 50 in salesforce 50 on all
other crms
well exactly and in terms of if you just
count companies using crms the other 60
percent
were not using what would be designated
in actual crm they're using google
spreadsheets or something else
or they just didn't do it and so then we
kind of double clicked on that it's like
well
you know these are real companies
they're paying us money right and uh
it's like okay well where are these
leads going they're using hubspot to
generate
through your blog and through social
media and a lot of times it was
spreadsheets a lot of times it was just
the hubspot database that's like okay
well we didn't need it's like we just
put it in hubspot and that's where we
use it from and we do what we need to do
and so so the problem we set out to
solve is like okay well
everybody should have a centrally
managed database a crm database
that's across the organization and it's
it's just wrong for 60 of our customers
not to have that
and so we ask ourselves the question
what is it that's keeping them from
doing that
like why have they not it's not like the
software categories that mature cr's
been around for decades
and the answers uh you know you got back
it's like oh well
you know a this is good enough that's a
kind of constant spreadsheet kind of
problem it's like oh spreadsheets are
good enough
uh number two is crm is painful in terms
of implementation kind of getting it
actually going at least they perceive
that it's painful
and to some degree price and so when we
launched our crm we're like okay well
if we're going to solve the market
problem the customer problem we want to
make it easier as easily possibly know
how so the fear of implementation is
not high oh and by the way we'll make it
free
right and that'll take the pricing away
so and the idea here is to
like really say okay if we took away the
obstacles and barriers
what would adoption look like and then
we'll worry about what the long-term
implications are in terms of
monetization other things kind of at a
future date which is
well that's fun let's talk about free
for a minute right obviously
hubspot sales and crm is expanded very
enterprise it has very rich editions
that are paid and all that i remember
when the early sales product launched it
was truly free i don't even know if
there was a paid edition back in the day
um and i was skeptical i wasn't
skeptical as i'm a super fan
right but i was skeptical that because
crm is so core
that free would incent enough behavior
that i don't care i mean i don't
i get that salesforce itself can be
expensive but a low end crm is not
uh it's not an expensive product so
when does that work and did it work
because of that white space because you
weren't trying to replace another crm
but it let people experiment that they
might not experiment but when
because when free works and when it
doesn't is is it seems more obvious from
the outside than the inside
yeah this is it's a great point so on
the list of i'll call it a mistake
because i think it was one
um and there's debate within hubspot but
when we did hubs we don't think we did
it right um because i think the point
you're bringing out is exactly and we're
kind of still fighting this particular
perception issue
um to this day right which is oh well
because it's free it can't be a real crm
i'm not looking for
like a free toy crm i'm a 200 person
manufacturing company and
i want something real those are my tools
all right these are my car
head of marketing or the head of sales
you're looking for it's like so
you know we thought that that was going
to be like one of the defining criteria
of what made this thing
popular and and honestly it has helped
don't get me wrong
um and there's a class of customers
where it's easy to try and the free
you know price point removes a barrier
uh but it's also been kind of a headwind
in terms of just perception
and this is the thing that we're in the
midst of trying to work through right
now there's two
two issues with the kind of product line
expansion one is you become a victim of
your own success to a degree right so we
had been for years
the marketing software company created a
new category called inbound marketing
had an event around it had
a bunch of content around it like
millions of people knew us
as a really really good marketing
software company and so then when you
kind of expand it's like oh yeah we are
that still
but we're expanding and now we're a crm
platform it's one thing to say it
it's another thing so we're five plus
years in the launch of hubspot crm
and to this day when we do unaided
surveys and we talk to people it's like
oh what do you think hubspot is
a troubling number of times the answer
still comes back is oh a marketing
software company you guys are awesome um
and so so that's been an issue and then
on top of that is this uh oh well
because it's free it's not really robust
enough and it doesn't you know do the
things or i'm not gonna bet my career on
you know something that's free and so
we're working through both of those
issues one is
what i would call like a classic
positioning exercise like okay well
let's just tell the world that hubspot's
a crm platform because it is and let's
um
and and make it clearer that this is a
freemium offering that says yes we have
a free version of the product
uh but there is a enterprise class crm
that's as good as
that would be in the top five in this
category um
and it's real so it's um yeah but the
thing i've learned though is that
like changing market perception is
non-trivial right uh despite we have
lots of reach lots of smart people and
lots of good things to say but uh
brands are powerful but they lock you in
too don't they they do
yeah they're both right and how um
and one thing i've i've i should have
learned this earlier but i've only
recently learned
is when you have a large installed base
you have to be very thoughtful
how often you market to them and upsell
them you have
we can count but let's say hubspot has
five core products now right
um you can't market five products every
hour to every
customer in your install base or it
fails right
what have you have you thought about
that either strategically or tactically
how
how much is is too hard how much is too
soft in terms of exposing your base to
other offerings
yeah um so the one thing we try and
there's trade-offs to this as well so
one of the things we're doing
uh to better position ourselves as a crm
platform
is that's the thing that we're actually
trying to sell um often so someone will
come in
like their immediate burning need is oh
we need a marketing automation thing
the vp of marketing woke up on a monday
morning like we need to solve this
particular problem some discrete part
of the broader problem um and of course
we will sell them that and we have
products and they're unbundled right so
you don't have to buy the whole thing
uh but the actual pitch for hubspot is
we are a crm platform
it does marketing sales service and the
content is all
integrated and it works together because
it was built from the ground up for smbs
it's got all these kind of value
and here's the but so we want to do is
paint the picture of the broader thing
and there are trade offs right because
you're kind of veering away from the
like if you're the sales rep the sales
rep is like
yeah but they're asking for marketing
automation any time that i waste you
know
trying to paint the broad crm platform
pictures taking away
you know minutes i could spend getting
them on this deal and getting this deal
done um
we have to kind of to some degree
retrain the sales team retrain ourselves
to say
um the only way people are going to
believe this is a it has to be true uh
which we think it is now for a product
perspective
it is a full crm platform uh but we have
to position ourselves and there are
trade-offs there's sacrifices that will
be made
in terms of near-term sales maybe a few
deals won't close as a result of us
being perceived as a uh as a crm
platform but that's the yeah
and you know that is an interesting it
is an interesting challenge that we all
go through
so it's that you you're having the same
sales team sell
all products but both products in this
case sales and marketing right that's
always there's a lot of folks sales
source will tell you that's the kiss of
death right if you talk to anyone in
salesforce it's like
day one you need a dedicated force that
understands that product
but then they don't understand the
customers well so here's the thing right
like
it's tough and this goes to the product
expansion story as well right so one of
the decisions we had to make once we
decided
that we needed to have a crm product and
have a product in that particular
category
yeah uh we could have pr uh went down
the classic playbook and said oh well
there are crm companies out there let's
just acquire one we don't we can't spend
the other five years of our lives
building out a crm right that's uh yeah
and we uncharacteristically didn't do
that and haven't done that
m a has not been a big part of the you
know spot uh please
you're bigger now yeah so never take 13
billion dollar market cap
yeah 750 market cap at ipo it's a little
scarier
isn't that true but yes you didn't buy
you
you built instead of bot which is an
interesting topic too right because it
takes a lot but it ties back to that
that um so the reason you know it was a
very
um kind of deliberate thing and we've
talked about it is that
you know the number one thing we're
solving for is that ease of use that's
the thing that hubspot was founded on to
make it easy for smbs
we didn't think we would be able to
continue to make it easy or keep it easy
if we just did a bunch of acquisitions
for crm and then service or whatever
things we wanted to get into we're like
okay
we're going to have to make the
sacrifice to build this and continue to
build this
kind of in-house so we have that user
experience cohesion
which we think smbs value now in the
fortune 1000 market that's not that big
a deal usability yeah people like it
it's not a huge deal because they have
armies of consultants that can do
implementations they have the budget
they have
pain tolerance which an smb just does
not have right they just don't have the
resources to be able to kind of
deal with hard to use software products
so we think it was just
we were solving for our market not to
say there's anything wrong with the kind
of grow by acquisition path that's
certainly a tried and true path but it
just wasn't
for us you know just for fun a small
point i want to stay at the higher point
but
you know that question of if i buy a
company i'm inheriting their code base
their debt
they're doing it differently it's a
different approach like boy i get that
right i always thought m a was the
scariest thing in the world right yeah
you can buy rev you can buy customers
but then oh my god you've got
100 000 lines of code that no one in
your company even knows how they work
it's like it's a nightmare so that's
true that's it has to be true
right yep on the other hand the fun
thing is if your hubspot hubspot was
founded when again
2000 2006. so if i if i'm building a new
hubspot product today
it's a brand new code base too i may i
may have a little more fluency at the
api level but really you're not going to
use the same tech stack you're not it's
going to be you're going to pick best of
breed everything today aren't you
uh actually no so one of the things that
you'll force the team to to
use the same stack as to that one thing
that
makes i i think one thing is that i'm
ctos i have a biased uh opinion here but
uh one of the things that makes hubspot
what it is is we have this underlying
set of software services uh called
hubspot framework and we
and we call the individual pieces of our
primary colors right so it's like oh
well we have automation built we have
reporting we have security and
and all those are shared service across
the entire product line so when we
launched uh our sales product and then
our service product
we had already been in the automation
space for a long time but automation for
us
is a feature built on this core service
called automation so whether you're
marketing automation or your sales
automation your ticketing automation
inside the service product
it's all the same automation and so when
we launch new products
i'll say 80 85 percent if we do it
correctly
is based on that core code base and
getting reused things we already have
around reporting around security around
just
uh even though the efficiencies they are
real they're worth building out the old
cold could have pulled off what it did
if it had not been for that um
yeah so just okay just two other
questions i wanna that i just think are
so interesting on this topic and maybe
we can do one last strategic one
anything else you wanna hit
um one thing that that a lot of us that
that sell either enterprise or sell
directly to smbs miss is the channel
right and the channel's so important to
hubspot right i don't know what it is
today but it's traditionally been 40 to
of the revenues through the channel how
does that work with multiple
products is there resistance to selling
a second product because look i'm good
at deploying hubspot
i go in i sell hubspot for 10k i pocket
20k
don't give me i don't want to sell diet
cherry caffeine free cola just let me
sell
yeah so the channel nuances it
yeah let's talk about this and by the
way just for the record i have no issues
with
kind of tactical let's get into the
weeds uh questions that's yeah we can
talk about everyone
this is a really good one right because
uh one thing you know and i have learned
over the years is that
even retraining a internal sales team to
sell a new product and actually do it is
non-trivial right
to say okay i want you to spend some
time on this new product that we have to
sell
it's like yeah but it's so much easier
to sell the thing i know that uh and
people are buying and asking for
uh so if i answer your question yes uh
that was a non-trivial
and still work in progress and it was
particularly exacerbated right it's not
just a
because most of our channel partners uh
in the early years of product were
aligned around that product so they were
marketing agencies they were seo firms
they were
web design companies and things like
that and then they learn hubspot and
and kind of implemented hubspot and help
customers use hubspot and that was their
thing and now we're going to sales and
crm
well as it turns out that's a whole
other kind of company right like these
are sales implementation firms they're
ops driven they're like sales strategy
and sales training kind of things
and so we had to kind of build out a new
set um and
we did have some that were successful
with our
marketing channel kind of migrate over
and expand their offering and they saw
it as an opportunity for growth uh but
then we also had to build out a new set
of companies that were
kind of more sales uh sales oriented but
yeah
yeah it is an interesting one um okay
one just two other things i wanted then
we can
chat about anything clean up stuff that
you have in mind one thing that i've
thought a lot about maybe for the last
year and i think it's accelerated since
kovid
is sweets versus best of breed and and
folks that have been around a little bit
while like you and me sweets was an
anathema as an idea this is an oracle
concept
of like we're going to jam every product
and why would i want a suite right i'm
getting why this is the
this is the web this is the open web why
can't i pick the best of breeds and yet
trust matters and security matters and
brand matters and if hubspot is the best
marketing solution for me
and hubspot sales is pretty good
like for i'm just saying it's not great
for others but it's just pretty good
that might be worth it for me right i
don't have the headspace i don't have
enough i.t
team i don't want to deal with the
security issues the deployment issues
the data governance issues and so i feel
like suites and salesforce maybe saw
this early right
salesforce is sweet it is not a sales
force or crm company
and so what do you think is it is as
brands rise and as all the leading cloud
companies are crossing a billion right
which is the last stop i want to hit
are we kind of in revenge of the suite
but it's a sweet 2.0 it's a trusted
suite it's a
it's i have a thousand sas apps now and
it's too many i don't want a thousand
one right
let me just buy it from hubspot because
i don't want a thousand and one yeah so
and this is i think um i think we are
going to see a return of the suite and
there and there's two kind of
flavors of sweet right there's a suite
where you have individual products
um that talk reasonably well together
but they're
quite distinct products right and then
you have let's say you look at google
suite just as a consumer product
it feels cohesive right so when you do a
collaboration within google slides it's
the same collaboration that you do
within uh google docs right it's like in
the commenting system how you app
mention somebody it all kind of works
the same
and it feels uh feels the same microsoft
office the kind of original
suite in my mind um it was similar
so i think we're we are moving in that
direction and it's partly just
raw uh resistance to complexity as
you kind of noted it's like oh people
don't want a thousand different
applications not for their core
yes they'll do things that you know it's
like first this particular concrete
discrete use case for my industry
i'm going to bring this in but i'm going
to plug it into my core backbone
whatever it happens to be whether it's
salesforce or hubspot or whatever it is
so i think that's a common thing
but the other thing i think people lose
sight of is just the
the cognitive load of non-suite
approaches like okay well
if i'm a user um of a crm suite let's
say
if i use individual products they may be
awesome but i still have to learn those
individual products and what their
quirks are and how automation works and
this one versus that one how reporting
works and
this one versus that one and so most
customers in my mind especially in smb
would sacrifice some best of breedness
so to speak
uh for the convenience of having a
single support phone number to call a
single ui that you have to learn
um less less training
yeah and just it just makes life easier
and you
you will trade off that convenience for
for best degree i think um yeah i think
people underestimate
we underestimated how powerful brands
were back in the day right that these
brands would last
and we we all are customer centric but
we underestimated the power of trust
if i trust hubspot and i need to add a
product and i love them and i have to
love my rep i have to love everyone in
the stack right every person i can't
have a product i love but a person i
don't love that breaks the relationship
but if it's everything that's my first
call for my next app isn't it
yeah it is and so and this is going to
sound a little bit kind of cliched but
i'm going to say it anyway because it
happens to be true and we talk about
this in the halls of hubspot
when people buy hubspot they're buying
the philosophy and culture of hubspot of
which the products are a byproduct
right it's like you you buy into our way
of building product our way of doing
business our way of treating our
employees
it's all of it it's like once you've
bought into that philosophy it's like
an apple has a its own set of things but
like there are people
including me that all things being equal
will just buy the apple product whatever
it happens to be i've bought into that
ecosystem
i've been into that you know bought into
that philosophy uh and we think hubspot
is similar for our customers it's like
okay yes uh individual products do this
i'm checking boxes and making sure the
features are there
but they fundamentally just buy into the
idea of hubspot uh the philosophy of
that spot
yep all right one last question let's go
way up high strategic but i've been
thinking about this a little bit now
now there's so many of the sas companies
that we know
that are up past or approaching a
billionaire are right it's crazy isn't
it looking back like
did we know all of them everyone like
clockwork whether they're crossing it
coming close they're all they're all
there right and we could we could talk
about why
but a different question now we can look
at the ones that were iconic
but are growing more slowly today right
i'm not going to point out anybody but
we can think of some of the great apps
that are
and i see that they all have one product
not all but really they do and if you
look at and the flip sides you look at
the twilios that went
broad aggressively you look at the vivas
that just added one other product vault
but vault got bigger
than their crm too there's either two or
twenty but the ones that blew through it
as hubspot is doing
and so if you guys thought about that as
a management team do you can you
do you need multiple products to hit 10
billion in error
is it is it does everyone have to do
this and what's the what's the right
time and sequence because i think we
we're starting to all feel that i mean
cloud is so big but there's still
only so many people on planet earth yep
that's true so i think so i'll answer
your question i think
most companies when you get to a certain
scale you will need a second product a
second act so to speak there are some
that can get away without it
but most of those exist in the consumer
space and b2b particularly usually you
will need to
kind of expand your product portfolio
and there's a couple of
kind of laws of physics that kind of
drive that it's not market saturation
it's not because you've already sold
your product to all possible people that
could buy it what it ends up being
is in order to kind of drive your go to
go to market and be able to kind of
drive retention rates above 100
you're going to need something new to
sell beyond what you already have into
your existing install base
um so you need a combination of yes
we're going to get new customers we're
gonna grow the overall customer base
that's obviously what
uh every company's trying to do but you
also need to say okay well
once i have that trusted relationship
once i am the vendor of choice for this
particular customer
if i had a new product that is so much
easier to sell than trying to get a
thousand ten thousand new customers um
and so i think the successful companies
find out a
a good balance across those two things
again we want to continue to invest in
the current products we're not going to
treat them as cash cows
we're going to grow mind share and
market share but then we're going to say
okay we want to grow share of wallet
from every individual customer
by expanding the product portfolio what
else can we solve for these customers
that already love us um
yep and that's what helps you kind of
get to the kind of billion dollar
and beyond mark i think it's one of the
things i think companies need to
kind of figure out as they scale yeah
the ones now that we have so many public
the one
the ones i worry about where even if the
numbers are great where the net
retention
is sort of equal to the growth rate wow
you have fifty 150
net revenue we wish we had that with
smes don't leave 150. yeah
but if the company is also growing 50
annually
there's some risk underlying i mean
where's that revenue coming from it's
all it's all you've got
it's challenging to either got to add
another product or seek out more
customers and it gets um
scale starts to hit you a little bit
yeah on that note one of the things that
we've talked about
uh a lot at hubspot is that when we
think about you know acquiring new
customers and the economics of sas are
much better understood today than they
were
you know let's say 10 10 years ago and
we have the notion of lifetime value
versus cac and lifetime value the way
companies measure it
um and which is the right way to measure
it's like okay well what's you know take
the churn rate and the
monthly subscription rate whatever
happens to me and you kind of do the the
quick math
but if you look at the kind of option
value of future customers based on your
past history once you have some history
it's like okay well
hubspot has launched some products right
now so when we acquire the next 10 000
next 25 000 customers
yes there is a lifetime value under the
assumption that the products we have
five years from now will be the product
that we have today but there is
a non-zero value for those customers
beyond the ltv around what other things
that we don't exist yet in the product
portfolio
that we will be able to sell them once
we have them as customers and i think
that makes the math more interesting in
terms of how much you're willing to
spend
to acquire customers uh you don't want
to go too crazy
but there is that option value of a
future option value
of uh depending your product portfolio
the nice thing about it is then you can
use that to say oh we have you know spot
has
75 000 odd customers now when we think
about
product expansion we can kind of sort of
do the math it's like here's what we
think the uptake will rate will be
and we can use that to fund it it's like
okay well this is a
adjacent market feels roughly
straightforward we can reuse a bunch of
our code base that's on top of the spot
framework
using our primary colors let's uh let's
do this that's the
it's a good reminder we can maybe we'll
wrap up on this one which is
yeah we know we know metrics so much
better today but they're complicated
these metrics right
and lifetime value you can't explain to
wall street this way they'll be confused
but
lifetime value is so much longer than we
thought right and and you will develop
new products if you go like
we grow just like we grow our tams right
our tams are all bigger than when we
start
part of that is our lifetime value is
bigger than we ever imagined right if
you have happy customers if you nurture
them if you water them and take care of
them
your your you have hubspot customers on
their second decade they'll come up on
their third decade
it's almost an infinity calculation i
need your help as cto to do this math
because it breaks my head in the
spreadsheet what some of these customers
could be worth right
totally i'm gonna have to i'm gonna
regret actually saying this stuff i'm
gonna tell you my diabolical secret uh
in terms of long-term growth and that so
we've been talking about lifetime value
and we you know we've talked about
here's the
kind of first order approximation of
lifetime value is the mrr and the turn
rate uh
second order is predicted future value
based on product expansion
another one that no one really talks
about is because systematically it's not
tracked yet and this is
i'm obsessed with this is around not
lifetime of the company and how long
that company is a customer
the lifetime value of that individual
because one thing we know for sure
is that people change jobs and change
careers every single week at hubspot we
will have a customer sign up
that was a future user of hubspot at a
different company all the time right
happens tens and hundreds of times
and uh i think one of the things that
will make for successful sas companies
um in the future this is what we're
working on is this kind of connected
ecosystem like we should know
not just which companies have bought
from us which people have bought from us
and
track their career trajectory over the
entirety of them being in the industry
we want to get them from the time they
graduate
through things like hubspot academy is
like we will help you build your career
and it's one thing we
phrases we use internally within hubspot
is we don't build software we actually
build careers
like deep down inside the soul of
hubspot that's what we're actually doing
and yes
we'll give you the tools we need but
even before that most people
when they kind of come into the hubspot
fray they do it through hubspot academy
and through our blog it's like we're
trying to teach you how to get into this
industry and it's changing really fast
it's a great place to be
um so that's that's what i'm obsessed
with how do we
better connect the ecosystem of this
kind of loyal fan base and user base
that we have and we've built over the
years that's
millions of people strong yeah in the
early days of faster i
i did wasn't thoughtful but we wrote
this early post on second order revenue
and i tried to calculate
that back in the day and that that
champion change was like a plus 50
back when i tried to do some rough math
and it's probably much more today
because
they're on their fourth job right and
maybe maybe the last thing we can break
is when you if you want happy customers
you want your app to be the first one
they deploy at their next job
i'm going in my neck's on the line i
have a new marketing job
and what am i you you know this thing
i'm going to deploy hubspot you want
that if you have that feeling if you
have that connection totally
infinity it's what we wanted to do is we
actually want to get you take it a half
step further which is
when that person is interviewing for a
head of sales head of marketing whatever
job at the next place
i want them to make it a requirement
that i will not join a company unless
they have hubspot are willing to put up
spotty and that's the level of
loyalty we're looking for it can be done
all right jeremiah this was great thank
you thank you so much thanks for having
me
yeah all right hold